The Zia Diagnostics Cart

This is a diagnostics ROM for the Tandy Color Computer 1, 2, and 3,
the TANO Dragon, and the Dragon Data Dragon 32 and 64. It may work
with other clones or near clones of these systems. This was heavily
inspired by the Diagnostics Pak sold by Radio Shack and Tandy for the
Color Computers with the intent to overcome a few perceived
shortcomings and limitations of that software. It is not a patched
version, it was written from scratch in M6809 and H6309 assembly
language.

Initial startup: There will be a slight delay before the initial title
screen shows up in the orange and black alternate color scheme. During
this delay the first 512 bytes of RAM are tested and some tests are
run to determine some features of the hardware it is being run
on. Hitting any key will put you in the main menu. After completing a
test any key will also return you to the main menu.

Note: Currently the title is shown, then the initial tests are
run. This probably needs to be fixed. There is also consideration to
make this part not use RAM. For instance place a copy of the initial
testing, page zero and page one responses on the ROM and use inline
code rather than subroutines.

Menu options:

A) Hardware info: reports the hardware configuration detected at
startup. This includes CoCo vs Dragon, 50Hz vs 60Hz, M6809 vs H6309
CPU, presence of a GIME style MMU, and memory size detected (up to
2MB)

B) Memory test: test all of your memory. If there is a problem it will
let you know. First it will test the display area, then all of your
memory. If you have an MMU, the top half of the screen will show the
progress of the 256 byte pages in the current page while the bottom
half shows the progress of the 8k blocks tested. A zero (invere @) is
a successful test while a failure in an area tested shows up a set
bits.

C) ROM test: performs a CRC of the BASIC ROMs in your machine and
shows the ROM version based on that CRC.

D) Video test: Allows running video tests based on the detected video
hardware (MC6847 or GIME). It does not distinguish between the MC6847
and MC6847T1 or between the two versions of the GIME. The MC6847 test
just runs through all of the available video modes for the MC6847 (if
a GIME is detected the MC6847 option will skip modes not implemented
in the GIME) while for the GIME you are allowed to set all of the
various options for the GIME video.

E) Keyboard test: shows the detected keypresses in the keyboard
matrix.

F) Joystick test: tests both of the analog joysticks (requires
joysticks)

G Sound test: plays some times on the 6-bit DAC.

H) Cassette test: saves a short piece of data to cassette, then loads
it back. (requires a cassette tape drive to be attached)

I) RS232 test: sends a series of characters to the CoCo serial port
(requires a loopback dongle)

J) Printer test: sends the printable characters to an attached printer
at 600 baud (requires a printer configured for 600 baud to be
attached).




